doc: Tokenisation Documentation (#1605)
SAP/spartacus-docs: _pages/install/integrations/opf-integration/opf-child-pages/6-tokenisation.md

---
title: Tokenisation
---

> Tokenisation is an OPF-based feature that enables customers to use saved payment cards during checkout and manage saved cards in My Account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokenisation is an OPF-based feature that enables customers to save payment cards, reuse them during checkout, and manage saved cards in My Account.
```

It supports two key flows:

> 1. Checkout saved cards flow: customers can select a previously saved card and place the order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Checkout saved cards flow: Customers can select a previously saved card, optionally update the default, and place the order.
```

> 2. My Account payment methods flow: logged-in customers can view, set default, and delete saved cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. My Account payment methods flow: Logged-in customers can view, set default, and delete saved cards.
```

## Enabling Tokenisation in Spartacus

> Tokenisation functionality is added to your storefront app when you install the open payment framework library, as described in [Enabling Open Payment Framework in Spartacus](link-to-section-in-1-open-payment-framework-in-spartacus.md). Note that Tokenisation is not enabled by default and must be explicitly selected during the schematics installation.

Reviewer: broken link

Author: I copied it from 2-quickbuy.md

Author: @Matejk00 Could you please confirm whether the link in `quickbuy.md` is working? @Sybil-He has already reviewed the PR, and this is the only remaining concern from her side. Once you confirm, we can proceed with merging the documentation.

Reviewer 2: @Diksha-28 In the final version of the Quick Buy docs, this link works properly:

https://help.sap.com/docs/SAP_COMMERCE_COMPOSABLE_STOREFRONT/962112809f9a48f9b36aa05b208b3731/63d4dd47cfed4b6f9af5c99aee24562a.html?state=DRAFT#loio97b18be71b3c49b397ca00600bbca80f

However, I’m not sure whether SAP Help Portal takes the Markdown directly from the GitHub repo or requires some additional adjustments.

Could you please ask @gladius-mtl what the valid linking approach should be?

Author: Hi @gladius-mtl , could you please share your input here? Thanks.

Reviewer: Hi @Diksha-28, I noticed the Gift Card doc also references this link, and it appears to be working correctly there: https://github.com/SAP/spartacus-docs/pull/1606/changes

Author: Hi @Sybil-He , could you check now ? It should work.

> Tokenisation functionality is added to your storefront app when you install the open payment framework library, as described in [Enabling Open Payment Framework in Spartacus](link-to-section-in-1-open-payment-framework-in-spartacus.md). Note that Tokenisation is not enabled by default and must be explicitly selected during the schematics installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tokenisation functionality is added to your storefront app when you install the open payment framework library, as described in [Enabling Open Payment Framework in Spartacus](link-to-section-in-1-open-payment-framework-in-spartacus.md). Note that tokenisation is disabled by default and must be explicitly enabled during the schematics installation.
```

After installation, tokenisation is available through OPF modules and configuration.

## How Tokenisation is rendered ?

> 1. Checkout flow (saved cards + new payment) :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Checkout Flow (Saved Cards + New Payment)
```

   Checkout tokenisation is outlet-driven, not CMS-driven. OPF injects tokenisation UI around checkout payment options through checkout outlets.

> Rendered elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Rendered Elements
```

a. Saved cards payment option(radio button) and heading :

> Displayed as a radio option when saved cards exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Saved cards payment option (radio button) and heading**  
   Displayed when saved cards exist.
```

b. Saved cards list and card actions :  

>  Shows tokenised cards and allows actions such as selecting a card for payment and setting default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Saved cards list and actions**  
   Displays tokenised cards and allows actions such as selecting a card for payment and setting default.
```

c. New payment heading:

> Separates the saved-cards area from the new-payment area when both are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New payment heading**  
   Separates the saved-cards area from the new-payment area.
```

> Key behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Key Behavior
```

a. Rendering is reactive to whether saved cards are available.

> b. If a user selected a saved card and then moves to another payment option, checkout payment details are cleared to avoid stale state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rendering depends on whether saved cards are available.
- If a user switches from a saved card to another payment method, checkout payment details are cleared to avoid stale state.

```

> 2. My Account flow (CMS-driven) :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 2. My Account Flow (CMS-Driven)
```

>    a. CMS component: AccountPaymentDetailsComponent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **CMS component**: `AccountPaymentDetailsComponent`
```

>    b. Mapped Spartacus component: OpfTokenisationAccountPaymentMethodsComponent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mapped Spartacus component**: `OpfTokenisationAccountPaymentMethodsComponent`
```

>    c. Guard: authenticated users only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Guard**: Authenticated users only
```

   You can enable the Tokenisation CMS component manually through ImpEx.

>    ### Adding CMS Component Manually

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Adding CMS Component Manually
```

>    To add all of the necessary CMS data for Tokenisation, import the following ImpEx:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To add all required CMS data for tokenisation, import the following ImpEx:
```

    ```text
    INSERT_UPDATE CMSFlexComponent;$contentCV[unique=true];uid[unique=true];name;flexType;&componentRef
    ;;AccountPaymentDetailsComponent;Account Payment Details Component;AccountPaymentDetailsComponent;AccountPaymentDetailsComponent
    ```

> Impact :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Impact
```

> a. If AccountPaymentDetailsComponent is already on the account payment page, OPF tokenisation takes over rendering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If `AccountPaymentDetailsComponent` is already present, OPF tokenisation overrides the default rendering.
```

> b. Customers get tokenised card management (view/set default/delete) and expiry indicators with tokenisation-specific UI behavior.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customers can manage their saved cards, including viewing available cards, setting a default, deleting cards, and identifying expired cards through tokenisation-specific UI indicators.
```

## Runtime Behavior

1. Tokenisation loads saved payment methods for logged-in users and enables saved-card checkout flow when cards are available.
2. The default saved card is auto-selected (when present), and users can explicitly select another saved card for payment.
3. Users can set a saved card as default, and this default is reflected in My Account payment methods.
4. Expired card indicators are shown in both checkout and My Account so invalid cards are clearly identified.
5. Saved-card mode is tracked through a dedicated internal selection state to keep checkout behavior consistent.

> 6. If a shopper selects a saved card and then switches to another payment option, checkout payment details are cleared to prevent stale state

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. If a shopper selects a saved card and then switches to another payment option, checkout payment details are cleared to prevent stale state.
```

---
title: Tokenisation
---

Tokenisation is an OPF-based feature that enables customers to save payment cards, reuse them during checkout, and manage saved cards in My Account.

It supports two key flows:

1. Checkout saved cards flow: Customers can select a previously saved card, optionally update the default, and place the order.
2. My Account payment methods flow: Logged-in customers can view, set default, and delete saved cards.

## Enabling Tokenisation in Spartacus

Tokenisation functionality is added to your storefront app when you install the open payment framework library, as described in [Enabling Open Payment Framework in Spartacus](link-to-section-in-1-open-payment-framework-in-spartacus.md). Note that tokenisation is disabled by default and must be explicitly enabled during the schematics installation.

After installation, tokenisation is available through OPF modules and configuration.

## How Tokenisation is rendered ?

### 1. Checkout Flow (Saved Cards + New Payment)

Checkout tokenisation is outlet-driven, not CMS-driven. OPF injects tokenisation UI around checkout payment options through checkout outlets.

> #### Rendered Elements
> 
> **Saved cards payment option (radio button) and heading**  
>  Displayed when saved cards exist.
> **Saved cards list and actions**  
>  Displays tokenised cards and allows actions such as selecting a card for payment and setting default.
> **New payment heading**  
>  Separates the saved-cards area from the new-payment area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Saved cards payment option (radio button) and heading**  
- Displayed when saved cards exist.

**Saved cards list and actions**  
- Displays tokenised cards and allows actions such as selecting a card for payment and setting default.

**New payment heading**  
- Separates the saved-cards area from the new-payment area.
```

---
title: Tokenisation
---

Tokenisation is an OPF-based feature that enables customers to use saved payment cards during checkout and manage saved cards in My Account.

It supports two key flows:

1. Checkout saved cards flow: customers can select a previously saved card and place the order.
2. My Account payment methods flow: logged-in customers can view, set default, and delete saved cards.

## Enabling Tokenisation in Spartacus

> Tokenisation functionality is added to your storefront app when you install the open payment framework library, as described in [Enabling Open Payment Framework in Spartacus](link-to-section-in-1-open-payment-framework-in-spartacus.md).

Reviewer 2: Should we also mention that tokenisation is not enabled by default? And needs to be checked during the schematics installation?

After installation, tokenisation is available through OPF modules and configuration.

## How Tokenisation is rendered ?

1. Checkout flow (saved cards + new payment) :
   Checkout tokenisation is outlet-driven, not CMS-driven. OPF injects tokenisation UI around checkout payment options through checkout outlets.

Rendered elements:
a. Saved cards payment option(radio button) and heading :
Displayed as a radio option when saved cards exist.
b. Saved cards list and card actions :  
 Shows tokenised cards and allows actions such as selecting a card for payment and setting default.
c. New payment heading:
Separates the saved-cards area from the new-payment area when both are available.

Key behavior:
a. Rendering is reactive to whether saved cards are available.
b. If a user selected a saved card and then moves to another payment option, checkout payment details are cleared to avoid stale state.

2. My Account flow (CMS-driven) :
   a. CMS component: AccountPaymentDetailsComponent

>    b. Mapped Spartacus component: OpfTokenisationAccountPaymentMethodsComponent

Reviewer 2: Can we also attach the Impex file with the sample data needed for these components?

   c. Guard: authenticated users only

Impact :
a. If AccountPaymentDetailsComponent is already on the account payment page, OPF tokenisation takes over rendering.
b. Customers get tokenised card management (view/set default/delete) and expiry indicators with tokenisation-specific UI behavior.

## Tokenisation Folder Structure

> tokenisation → Feature package root

Reviewer 2: I’d say we don’t really need to present the folder structure, as it changes from time to time. Otherwise, we’d have to update the documentation every time the structure changes.

Author: sure
